11-36
While the temptation would be high to shut down the project and re-plan it, the prudent manager might take a moment to become familiar with the project planning documents, the absence or presence (and corresponding completeness) of which would speak volumes to the manner and organization with which the project has been run to date.

Beginning with the Proposal and developing a clear understanding of the Statement of Work (SOW) will help to quickly align the new manager's understanding of the size and scope of the work to be completed.  Next, comparing the SOW to the project schedule will give a quick and rough idea of the state of the project with regard to timeliness.  Lastly, tracing the Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) to the Line Managers and ascertaining a status on current deliverables will let the astute project manager know three important things: 1) do the line managers have sufficient visibility of the state of their current work items, 2) are the work items slated to be delivered on time, and 3) what is the working climate that exists between the project and line management?

After determining the overall state of the project documentation, assessing the timeliness of the effort, and the climate of the working relationships with key personnel, the manager will want to meet with the matrixed engineers.  Their buy-in to the completion of the project will factor into the equation.  The new project manager can then make an educated and informed determination regarding his ability to stand behind a commitment to complete the project within time and cost.

11-44
a) Given a sufficient ability on the part of Mr. Lopez to forge informal channels of communication, establish and maintain trust relationships, and garner accountability both internally and from industry partners it is possible that a 20 percent cost savings could have been realized.  The difficulty with this approach is that even a single breach along any of these lines could result in unanticipated overruns that eclipse any savings accrued throughout the year.  Without formal mechanisms in place to enforce accountability and  resolve contractual disagreement there is not guarantee that the processes established by Mr. Lopez would be repeatable or sustainable.

b) Consistent with my position (stated above), I do not see a clear path to sustainable and reliable reproduction of Mr. Lopez's informal project management system in his absence.  This system by definition relies heavily on the undocumented mechanisms and channels established by and reliant on the strength of one person's relationships with co-workers, contractors, and vendors.  While I believe that there would likely be some economy in establishing long-term commitments with subcontractors (e.g., 10-year), I believe that some (a lot???) of the perceived savings would be eroded by lack of competitive bidding, lack of incentive for technical innovation, and inevitable apathy between the contractor and the government entity.

