Who are you?
I am a husband and father of 2 young boys who mean everything to me.  I like to read and prefer Hemingway to Dan Brown.  I love music and play guitar, although not very well.  I have a recreational interest in mathematics and physics and at any given time have several "science experiments" in various states of completion.  It is a great joy to me that my oldest son likes to help me with these from time to time.

I am presently employed by Command, Power, & Integration in the Mission Command Capabilities Division under CERDEC.  I work in the Hand Held and Tactical Technologies Branch which promotes development in support of the use of commercial hand held devices (smart phones and tablets) by warfighters in theater.

I currently lead a team of Army Engineers who are developing a tactical marketplace solution.  Most days I believe this is the best job in the world.

What makes you tick?
My wife and 2 kids mean more to me than anything else and it is ultimately that priority that motivates and informs the choices that I make in all other areas of my life.  

Where do you come from?
Geographically, I grew up in Maryland but have moved around some.  I spent a few years in southern California (San Diego, mostly) and I went to school (undergrad) in Wisconsin.  Career-wise, I spend most of the past 15 years in non-defense-related private industry and I did a lot of contract consulting during the dot-com boom.

Why are you where you are today?
I am driven, focused, self-assured, technically competent, articulate, organized, and work well with others.  I firmly believe that while all of those qualities have helped me to get where I am today, the one quality that has done more for me than any other is the ability to effectively communicate. Especially in a technical role, effective communication tends to be a lost art.

What’s your background?
Schooling
I graduated in 1996 from Beloit College in Beloit, WI, with a Bachelors degree in Mathematics & Computer Science and Sociology.

Professional
I am a fairly recent hire with the Army and was brought in as a mid-career transfer to cover some need resulting from BRAC.  I had previously spent over 15 years in private industry (not defense related).  My most recent previous employer is Hapax in Annapolis, MD, where I worked as a Software Engineer on their natural language processing service.  Most of my career has been spent directing and producing software for Unix systems and has been heavy on C/C++, Java, and Perl.  I also have some prior military experience, although it was a very long time ago.

Community
My time is entirely consumed by work, school, piano and guitar lessons for my kids, soccer, and other various responsibilities around the home.  What little time I have left is devoted to my wife.  I presently have little or no time for much community involvement.  On the rare occasion that I get some time to myself I very much enjoy listening to music and I build tube audio equipment.

Why did you choose SE for your MS?
I had initially intended to pursue a Masters in Applied Mathematics from Johns Hopkins University.  As it turned out, many of the classes that I needed were offered only through a campus which is located a considerable distance from where I live and work.  So I was excited when I was presented with the opportunity to enroll this SE Masters program.  Also, it better suits my projected career track.

What name do you prefer (Ed vs Edgar vs Hey You, etc)
I go by Steve.

Anything special I should know about you/your situation?
I have two young boys at home and a working wife.  They afford me all the accommodation I could possibly want or need.